Hello everyone and welcome to the recommender system implementation of lecture and this lecture we're
going to be using the same data set that we just uploaded in the last lecture and actually build a movie
recommendation system using Sparc and Skala are going to jump straight to my data notebook where we
left off last time.
OK here I am at a data Brick's notebook.
I'm going to import a couple of things that we're going to be needing for actual recommendation system.
We want to import or Apache SPARC M-L recommendation
alias and then we can shift and try and run that cell and then the next thing I want to do is actually
import the ratings.
Now you've already done this in the previous lecture but in case you want a reminder we just say Val
ratings as it will to spark read the option that we're going to have the better be true.
And then we're also going to have the option of infer schema the true cxxviii and then the file path
to that data file.
We're going to copy and paste that see every path that I saved earlier so I'm going to copy and paste
that here.
And then run shift and try to make sure everything worked.
The cell mammo a little zoomed in which is why it looks like it's on multiple lines but this is all
just one line.
OK.
To confirm that's looking all right we can say something like rating's head and check up the head of
the ratings.
So for instance the very first row we have that user id the movie the rating that user gave that particular
movie.
And just to confirm we can also say current schema shift enter.
And you can use tab autocomplete here OK since we're using the notebook system.
I want to mention real quickly that in the data Brick's notebook system if you say rating's dot you
can click the tab key on your keyboard and actually get a dropdown list of all the methods available
to you on that particular object so we can see here all the methods available on this rating's data
frame.
We've seen this before in the spark shell where we clicked that tab and were able to see various options
but just know that it's also available here in this notebook format and users of the Jupiter notebook
will feel this to be really familiar.
All right so we have our ratings now what we want to do is actually try to build a recommendation system
now by their nature recommendation systems are pretty hard to evaluate how well they actually perform
especially on new users.
You have no data.
We're going to do is split our data into a training and test as we've done before in the past so we'll
say thou array training and test those two variables are two values is rating's dog.
And then we will do a random split and you can see here I'm just clicking tab and it gives me the options
of what to choose will say random split on this array and we'll do an 80 percent 20 percent split.
So 80 percent training data 20 percent test data shift enter to run that.
And here we have as the output our two data frame's training and testing.
Now it's time to actually build the recommendation model so I will say vowel a ls and we create a new
HLS model.
And you can set lots of parameters here.
You can check out the actual documentation page for the various parameters you can set.
But a couple of the ones you can set is for instance at the max iterations and we're going to be following
along with the documentation.
So we'll say five max iterations and we also set a regularization parameter for this matrix factorization
essentially and we'll say 0.01.
And then the three main settings are parameters you want to set as the user call the item column and
then the rating column.
So I'll say set user call and this is to be a numeric column that identifies the actual users and in
our case that's the user id column and then the other parameter you're usually going to have for a recommendation
system is the actual item you're trying to recommend.
So in our case it's movies that if you're dealing with something like Amazon this could be anything
like the actual Amazon item code.
So in this case we're going to say the movie ID and keep in mind this particular item column also needs
to be a numeric form.
And then finally the rating call and in our case that's just going to be the rating call.
And then this is what we're going to do we're going to shift enter and create that new Aeolus object
and then I'm going to say that all model is equal to a less fit that on the training set.
And that's going to actually run most of the spark jobs there as it's being trained.
And now we have a trained model and we can evaluate the model by actually performing some transformation
of the test data.
So I will say this that all predictions is equal to model does transform.
And then I'm going to pass that test data and then shift and try to run that.
And now I have my predictions.
So if I see my predictions or if I just say predictions show shift enter we'll should see the output
of that predictions data frame
and there it is.
So here I have my user ID the movie ID the rating and the prediction.
So this is just the actual test data.
This is the training data that I train our model on these first three columns are the actual test data
and then the fourth column is the prediction I had based off of that user ID in that movie.
So I predicted that user to 42 when watching movie 4 6 3 would have a three and a half or 3.6 star rating
when in reality they had a four star rating.
So how can we actually evaluate how well our model did.
Well what do we that's an easy metric to more or less check it just check how far off on average are
we from the rating versus the prediction.
So let's show you how to do that and something that's nice about the notebook is you can delete the
content in a cell but until you run it you won't see the output disappear which is kind of nice.
In this case we're going to need to import one more thing.
We'll need to import from org Patchi that spark that sequel dot functions dot underscore and that's
where we have the capability to actually use functions such as absolute value and average.
So I'm going to say all error is equal to predictions member predictions.
Is the data Freemans showing right here below.
And I'm going to select the rating column minus the prediction column and you can do this either way
you can say prediction minus rating rating minus prediction.
But what I want to do is calculate a new column which is going to be the rating minus the prediction
and then take the average of that column to see on average how far off is our prediction that our rating.
But there's one more thing that I need to keep in mind.
And that's the fact that my prediction may be lower or higher than the true rating.
So for instance here my prediction on the very first one was lower but on the third row My prediction
is higher.
And if on average we get half of them to be off by minus 1 and the other half off by Plus 1 if I just
take the average of that it's going to look like I have a very good system because negative one and
one the average is going to be zero.
So I'm going to fool myself into thinking I have an absolute or excuse me that I have a zero error or
an absolutely perfect recommendation system.
And in that case I need to take the absolute value of this and this should be reminiscent to things
such as the root mean squared error where you do things such as squaring the actual rating or true value
minus a prediction in order to get rid of that sort of averaging below and above.
And if you wanted to you could also do something like a root mean squared error on this sort of rating
and prediction value.
But here we're going to take the absolute value of this.
And then we're going to say shift and try to run that sell.
And now that's going to put this error data frame.
So if I check out the air here and just show that
this is going to give me the absolute value of rating minus prediction is the output.
And there it is.
So we have the absolute value of reading May's prediction and here I can see how off I was for each
of those predictions and what I want to know on average how far off am I.
And a very quick way to do this is to just say the scribe and then show description but you're going
to notice something when I say that the scribe we won't be able to get that mean or the average immediately
and I'm going to explain why in just a second once we see that output.
OK so here we can see that the output shows a count and a minimum of value but mean instead of deviation
have NULL or an end values.
Now the reason for that is because when we did the split on the training data and the testing data there
were some user IDs that were able to be in both the training set and the testing set which means we
have no values in our output.
That means the basically the model had never even seen the user id or movie Id combination before had
never even heard of this user and it wasn't able to do any sort of output.
So we can do here is say in a drop described show and this one showing the average for where we do have
information it's going to drop those null values as we learned about when we learned how to deal with
missing data and data frames.
OK and here we can see on average we are off by zero point eighty four.
So based off the data split that we did on training data versus testing data on average our model is
off by about a little less than 1 star which isn't so bad.
It means if you really liked the movie The model was able to correctly predict that you were more or
less would like that movie within one star.
And it's the same thing for if you really dislike the movie or just a movie was OK.
OK so were able to implement our full recommendation system on a real cluster on the data bricks platform.
Now as I mentioned the very beginning of this section of the Course recommender systems by themselves
are actually a very complex topic and they deal for a whole host of problems.
The other machine learning algorithms don't usually have to deal with.
And those can be things such as the cold start problem which is when you have a user that's never actually
initiated with the platform that you're trying to recommend.
So for instance if you're on Netflix a very new user who just signed up for the service for that movie
service What movies do you recommend to them if they've never seen any movies on your platform and you
have no information about them.
Similarly if it's an AM if it's a customer's very first time on a web site such as Amazon.
Well the products you recommend for this person to buy if you have no purchasing history even though
browsing history that's a cold start problem you're have a cold start before you can actually grab any
data from this person.
Now there's a variety of ways to actually solve that problem.
And one easy way is to recommend the top 10 most popular items.
Overall two new people and then seeing what the data says from their.
Now with all that being said I hope you realize just how powerful Skala and Sparke is in that we were
able to basically do a full blown recommendation system of just a few lines of code on a cluster and
it's fully parallelizable meaning you can grab the larger cluster off the data Brick's professional
platform and deal with much larger data sets.
And if you want to do that you can feel free to purchase or do the 14 day free trial of data bricks
and then download the larger movie lens datasets and play around with this further.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post them to the Q&A forum.
But as a quick review of what we've done basically we just imported from Sparta and Mehldau recommendation.
LS And then we said grab our data as a ratings and most importantly we do the training test split as
well as set up this new HLS data set.
And we had to set the user column the item column and the rating column and really measure of these
two parameters and see if to even really make a difference off our average error on that reading.
I'll leave that to you as a little exercise play around.
OK.
Thanks everyone.
Hope you enjoyed the lecture.
Then I'll see you at the next one.